New pages: DOMTokenList and MediaList toString() method (#37052)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/medialist/tostring/index.md

---
title: "MediaList: toString() method"
short-title: toString()
slug: Web/API/MediaList/toString
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.MediaList.toString
---

{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

> The **`toString()`** {{Glossary("stringifier")}} method of the {{domxref("MediaList")}} API returns a string representing the array-like `MediaList` object values, a list of one or more media formats, as text. The return value is the same as {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}} stringifier property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`toString()`** {{Glossary("stringifier")}} method of the {{domxref("MediaList")}} interface returns a string representing the object's values, in the same format as the {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}} property.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
toString()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A string; a space-separated list of media values.

## Examples

```js

> const SS = document.styleSheets[0]; // the document's first stylesheet
> const ML = SS.media; // the mediaList of the stylesheet
> // set the `media` text to a media query value
> ss.mediaText = "SCREEN AND (140PX <= WIDTH <= 380PX)";
> // add a second media value
> ML.appendMedium("SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))");
> // erroniously, add a media query twice
> ML.appendMedium("SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))");
> console.log(ML.toString()); // "screen and (140px <= width <= 380px), screen and (max-height: 400px) and (orientation: landscape)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const styleSheets = document.styleSheets[0]; // the document's first stylesheet
const mediaList = styleSheets.media; // the mediaList of the stylesheet

// set the `media` text to a media query value
styleSheets.mediaText = "SCREEN AND (140PX <= WIDTH <= 380PX)";

// add a second media value
mediaList.appendMedium("SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))");

// erroneously, add the same media query again
mediaList.appendMedium("SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))");

console.log(mediaList.toString());
// "screen and (140px <= width <= 380px), screen and (max-height: 400px) and (orientation: landscape)" 
```

Cleaned up. HOWEVER I don't get the expected output, I get:

> screen and (max-height: 400px) and (orientation: landscape)

```

> Media list values are lowercase. When stringified, the values are separated by a comma followed by a space.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(already covered by "same as MediaText".)

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}}
- {{domxref("MediaList.appendMedium()")}}

> - {{domxref("MediaList")}}

Reviewer: Again I doubt the value of see-alsoing the interface or its other members.

Author: I include links to the methods used in the example within

---
title: "MediaList: toString() method"
short-title: toString()
slug: Web/API/MediaList/toString
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.MediaList.toString
---

{{APIRef("CSSOM")}}

> The **`toString()`** {{Glossary("stringifier")}} method of the {{domxref("MediaList")}} interface returns a string representing the object's values, in the same format as the {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}} property.

Author: ```suggestion
The **`toString()`** {{Glossary("stringifier")}} method of the {{domxref("MediaList")}} interface returns a string representing the object's values. The value is a comma-separated list of media values in the same format as the {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}} property.
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
toString()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

> A string; a space-separated list of media values.

Author: ```suggestion
A string.
```

## Examples

```js

> const styleSheets = document.styleSheets[0]; // the document's first stylesheet
> const mediaList = styleSheets.media; // the mediaList of the stylesheet
> 
> // set the `media` text to a media query value
> styleSheets.mediaText = "SCREEN AND (140PX <= WIDTH <= 380PX)";
> 
> // add a second media value
> mediaList.appendMedium(
>   "SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))",
> );
> 
> // erroneously, add the same media query again
> mediaList.appendMedium(
>   "SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))",
> );
> 
> console.log(mediaList.toString());
> // "screen and (140px <= width <= 380px), screen and (max-height: 400px) and (orientation: landscape)"

Author: ```suggestion
const firstStyleSheet = document.styleSheets[0]; // the document's first stylesheet
const mediaList = firstStyleSheet.media; // the mediaList of the stylesheet

// set the `media` text to a media query value
mediaList.mediaText = "SCREEN AND (140PX <= WIDTH <= 380PX)";

// add a second media value
mediaList.appendMedium(
  "SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))",
);

// erroneously, add the same media query again
mediaList.appendMedium(
  "SCREEN AND (MAX-HEIGHT: 400PX) AND (ORIENTATION: LANDSCAPE))",
);

console.log(mediaList.toString());
// "screen and (140px <= width <= 380px), screen and (max-height: 400px) and (orientation: landscape)"
```

```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{domxref("MediaList.mediaText")}}
- {{domxref("MediaList.appendMedium()")}}

> - {{domxref("MediaList")}}

Author: ```suggestion
```
